Add 1.28 release interview blog post (#43599)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-10-20-kubernetes-1.28-release-interview.md

I have not. I actually didn't know that was a fact.

**The local civic organization is going to have to do a bit more work, I feel. Do you like ribs?**<br>
I have mixed feelings about ribs. It's kind of a hit or miss situation for me so far. 

**Again, that might be something that's changed over the last few years. The Ribfests used to have a lot of trophies with little pigs on top of them, but I feel that the shifting dining habits of the world might mean they have to offer some vegan or vegetarian options, to please the modern palette.**<br>
[LAUGHS] For sure. Do you recommend the Oktoberfest here? Have you been?

**I went a couple of times.  It was a lot of fun.**<br>
Okay.

**It's basically just drinking. I would have recommended it back then; I'm not sure it would be quite what I'd be doing today.**<br>
All right, good to know.

**The Ribfest, however, I would go back just for that.**<br>
Oh, ok.

> **And the great thing about Ribfests as a concept is that they have one in every little town. [The Kitchener Ribfest](https://kitchenerribandbeerfest.com/), I looked it up, it's in July; you've just missed that. But, you could go to the [Waterloo Ribfest](https://northernheatribseries.ca/waterloo/) in September.**<br>

Author: [I did some research on grammatical rules for this one!](https://english.stackexchange.com/questions/435246/should-i-put-a-comma-after-is-if-its-followed-by-a-prepositional-phrase) The comma would probably more correctly go _before_ the "is", but I think that as-is reflects how it was spoken.

**They do. I think Guelph has one, and Cambridge has one. That's the advantage of the region — there are lots of little cities. Kitchener and Waterloo are two cities that grew into each other — they do call them the Twin Cities. I hear that they finally built the light rail link between the two of them?**<br>
It is fantastic, and makes the city so much more walkable.

**Yes, you can go from one mall to the other. That's Canada for you.**<br>
Well, Uptown is really nice. I quite like it. It's quite cozy.

**Do you ever cross the border over into Kitchener? Or only when you've lost a bet?**<br>
Yeah, not a lot. Only for farmer's market, I say. 

**It's worthwhile. There's a lot of good food there, I remember.**<br>
Yeah. Quite lovely.

**Now we've got all that out of the way, let's travel back in time a little bit. You mentioned there that you went to high school in Calgary?**<br>
I did. I had not been to Ontario before I went to university. Calgary was frankly too cold and not walkable enough for me. 

**I basically say the same thing about Waterloo and that's why I moved to England.**<br>
Fascinating. Gets better. 

**How did you get into tech?**<br>

> I took a computer science class in high school. I was one of maybe only three women in the class, and I kind of stuck with it since.

Author: this would be OK as an addition, but throughout I've tried to keep Grace's tone, and not lose her flavour of speech.

**Was the gender distribution part of your thought process at the time?**<br>
Yeah, I think I was drawn to it partially because I didn't see a lot of people who looked like me in the class. 

> **You followed it through to university. What is it that you're studying?**<br>

Author: suggestion is not grammatically correct, and isn't reflective of what was spoken

I am studying computer engineering, so a lot of hardware stuff. 

> **You're involved in the [UW Cybersecurity Club](https://www.facebook.com/groups/uwcyber/). What can you tell me about that without having to kill me?**<br>

Author: It could have been spoken in a better way too 🤣

**How did that lead you on to involvement with the release team?**<br>
It was over the pandemic, so I didn't have a lot to do, I went to the conference, saw so many cool talks. One that really stuck out to me was [a Kubernetes hacking talk by Tabitha Sable and V Korbes](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-4W3ChRVeLI). I thought it was the most amazing thing and it was so cool. One of my friends was on the release team at the time, and she showed me what she does. I applied and thankfully got in. I didn't have any open source experience. It was fully like one of those things where someone took a chance on me. 

**How would you characterize the experience that you've had to date? You have had involvement with pretty much every release since then.**<br>
Yeah, I think it was a really formative experience, and the community has been such a big part of it.

> **You started as an enhancement shadow with Kubernetes 1.22, eventually moving up to enhancements lead, then you moved on to be the release lead shadow. Obviously, you are the lead for 1.28, but for 1.27 you did something a bit different. What was that, and why did you do it?**<br>

Author: suggestion is not grammatically correct, and isn't reflective of what was spoken

**Congratulations again on [the release of 1.28 today](/blog/2023/08/15/kubernetes-v1-28-release/).**<br>
Yeah, thank you.

**What is the best new feature in Kubernetes 1.28, and why is it [sidecar container support](/blog/2023/08/25/native-sidecar-containers/)?**<br>
Great question. I am as excited as you. In 1.28, we have a new feature in alpha, which is sidecar container support. We introduced a new field called restartPolicy for init containers, that allows the containers to live throughout the life cycle of the pod and not block the pod from terminating. Craig, you know a lot about this, but there are so many use cases for this. It is a very common pattern. You use it for logging, monitoring, metrics; also configs and secrets as well.

**And the service mesh!**<br>

> And the service mesh.

Author: This is what was said, and it bears repeating for emphasis.

> **Very popular. I will say that the Sidecar pattern was called out very early on, in [a blog post Brendan Burns wrote](/blog/2015/06/the-distributed-system-toolkit-patterns/), talking about how you can achieve some of the things you just mentioned. Support for it in Kubernetes has been— it's been a while, shall we say. I've been doing these interviews since 2018, and September 2019 was when [I first had a conversation with a release manager](/blog/2019/12/06/when-youre-in-the-release-team-youre-family-the-kubernetes-1.16-release-interview/) who felt they had to apologize for Sidecar containers not shipping in that release.**<br>

Author: The correct thing to link is the blog post including the words "blog post", and adding quotes would make no sense here.

**Are there a lot of other user-facing changes, or are most of the things in the release very much behind the scenes?**<br>
I would say it's a good mix of both; it depends on what you're interested in. 

**I am interested, of course, in [non-graceful node shutdown support](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2268). What can you tell us about that?**<br>
Right, so for situations where you have a hardware failure or a broken OS, we have added additional support for a better graceful shutdown.

**If someone trips over the power cord at your LAN party and your cluster goes offline as a result?**<br>
Right, exactly. More availability! That's always good. 

**And if it's not someone tripping over your power cord, it's probably DNS that broke your cluster. What's changed in terms of DNS configuration?**<br>
Oh, we introduced [a new feature gate to allow more DNS search path](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/2595).

**Is that all there is to it?**<br>
That's pretty much it. [LAUGHING] Yeah, you can have more and longer DNS search path.

**It can never be long enough. Just search everything! If .com doesn't work, try .net and try .io after that.**<br>

> Surely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: This is what was actually spoken.

**Those are a few of the big features that are moving to stable. Obviously, over the course of the last few releases, features come in, moving from Alpha to Beta and so on. New features coming in today might not be available to people for a while. As you mentioned, there are feature gates that you can enable to allow people to have access to these. What are some of the newest features that have been introduced that are in Alpha, that are particularly interesting to you personally?**<br>
I have two. The first one is [`kubectl delete --interactive`](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/3895). I'm always nervous when I delete something, you know, it's going to be a typo or it's going to be on the wrong tab. So we have an `--interactive` flag for that now.

**So you can get feedback on what you're about to delete before you do it?**<br>
Right; confirmation is good!

**You mentioned two there, what was the second one?**<br>

> Right; this one is close to my heart. It is a SIG Release KEP, [publishing on community infrastructure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1731). I'm not sure if you know, but as part of my branch management associate role in 1.27, I had the opportunity to cut a few releases. It takes up to 12 hours sometimes. And now, we are hoping that that process only includes release managers, so we don't have to call up the folks at Google and, you know, lengthen that process anymore.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Right; this one is close to my heart. It is a SIG Release KEP, [publishing on community infrastructure](https://github.com/kubernetes/enhancements/issues/1731). I'm not sure if you know, but as part of my branch management associate role in 1.27, I had the opportunity to cut a few releases. It takes up to 12 hours sometimes. And now, we are hoping that the process only includes release managers, so we don't have to call up the folks at Google and, you know, that won't lengthen the process anymore.
```

Author: suggestion is not grammatically correct, and isn't reflective of what was spoken.

(Will take s/that/the/ though, thank you!)

**Is 12 hours the expected length for software of this size, or is there work in place to try and bring that down?**<br>

> There's so much work in place to bring that down. I think 12 hours is on the shorter end of it. Unfortunately, we have had a situation where we have to, you know, switch the release manager because it's just so late at night for them. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There's so much work in place to bring that down. I think 12 hours is on the shorter end of it. Unfortunately, we have faced a situation where we have to, you know, switch the release manager because it's just so late at night for them. 
```

Author: This isn't reflective of how Grace speaks, and is too large a change for a verbatim transcript.

**I have heard a rumor that GitHub boards are powered by spreadsheets underneath.**<br>
Honestly, even if that's true, the fact that it's on the same platform and it has better version control is just magical. 

**At this time, the next release lead has not yet been announced, but tradition dictates that you write down your feelings, best wishes and instructions to them in an envelope, which you'll leave in their desk drawer. What are you going to put inside that envelope?**<br>
Our 1.28 release lead is fantastic and they're so capable of handling the release—

**That's you, isn't it?**<br>
1.29? [LAUGHS] No, I'm too tired. I need to catch up on my sleep. My advice for them? It's going to be okay. It's all going to be okay. I was going to echo Leo's and Cici's words, to overcommunicate, but I think that has been said enough times already. 

**You've communicated enough. Stop! No more communication!**<br>
Yeah, no more communication. [LAUGHS] It's going to be okay. And honestly, shout out to my emeritus advisor, Leo, for reminding me that. Sometimes there are a lot of fires and it can be overwhelming, but it will be okay. 

> **As we've alluded to a little bit throughout our conversation, there are a lot of people in the Kubernetes community who, for want of a better term, have had "a lot of experience" at running these systems. Then there are, of course, a lot of people who are just at the beginning of their careers; like yourself, at university. How do you see the difference between how those groups interact? Is there one team throughout, or what do you think that each can learn from the other?**<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**As we've alluded to a little bit throughout our conversation, there are a lot of people in the Kubernetes community who want a better term, and had "a lot of experience" at running these systems. Then there are, of course, a lot of people who are just at the beginning of their careers; like yourself, at university. How do you see the difference between how those groups interact? Is there one team throughout, or what do you think that each can learn from the other?**<br>
```

Author: suggestion is not grammatically correct, and isn't reflective of what was spoken

I think the diversity of the team is one of its strengths and I really enjoy it. I learn so much from folks who have been doing this for 20 years or folks who are new to the industry like I am. 

> **I know the CNCF goes to a lot of effort to enable new people to take part. Is there anything that you can say about how people might get involved?**<br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**I know the CNCF goes to a lot of effort to enable new people to take part. Is there anything that you can say about how people can get involved?**<br>
```

Author: stylistic choice only; will remain with what I spoke

> Firstly, I think SIG Release has started a wonderful tradition, or system, of [helping new folks join the release team as a shadow](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/release-team/shadows.md), and helping them grow into bigger positions, like leads. I think other SIGs are also following that template as well. But a big part of me joining and sticking with the community has been the ability to go to conferences. As I said, my first conference was KubeCon, when I was not involved in the community at all. And so a big shout-out to the CNCF and the companies that sponsor the Dan Kohn and the speaker scholarships. They have been the sole reason that I was able to attend KubeCon, meet people, and feel the power of the community. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Firstly, I think SIG Release has started a wonderful tradition, or system, of helping new folks [join the release team as a shadow](https://github.com/kubernetes/sig-release/blob/master/release-team/shadows.md), and helping them grow into bigger positions, like leads. I think other SIGs are also following that template as well. But a big part of me joining and sticking with the community has been the ability to go to conferences. As I said, my first conference was KubeCon, when I was not involved in the community at all. And so a big shout-out to the CNCF and the companies that sponsor the Dan Kohn and the speaker scholarships. They have been the sole reason that I was able to attend KubeCon, meet people, and feel the power of the community. 
```

Author: I think this is an acceptable link because the page does refer to why the process exists and how it helps ("The Shadow system is an apprenticeship model, like those used by union tradespeople."), and is not just the method of joining.
